Describe case where env-map has class & instance (#175)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim: draft-ietf-rats-corim.md

Triples which match are accepted, and the Accepted Claims Set is extended with Endorsements from these triples.

Each triple is processed independently of other triples.
If a triple does not match the ACS then this does not affect whether the Verifier tries to match other triples against the ACS.

### Ordering of triple processing

Triples interace with the ACS by either matching against ACS entries or by modifying or adding AES entries.
The `environment-map` field is used to select the AES entries to match or modify.

The order of triples processing is important. Processing a triple may result in ACS modifications which allow other triples to match the modified ACS.

The Verifier MUST ensure that all triples which include a particular `environment-map` in their matching specification are processed after triples which modify or add an ACS entry with that `environment-map`.

This can be acheived by sorting the triples before processing, by repeating processing of some triples after ACS modifications or by other algorithms.

### Processing Reference Values Triple

> A Reference Value Provider publishes Reference Values, which are matched against the Accepted Claims Set (ACS).
> The authority of the RVP is added to all ACS entries which match the Reference Values triple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reference Value Providers (RVP) publish Reference Values triples that are matched against ACS entries.
Reference Values may describe multiple acceptable states for Attesters; hence "matching" determines that Evidence (contained in the ACS) satisfies an appropriate subset of the available Reference Values.
If the appropriate subset matches, the authority of the RVP is added to the appropriate ACS entries.
```

> The Verifier compares each `reference-triple-record` against ACS entries as described in {{sec-match-one-se}}, using a `stateful-environment-record` created from the fields in `reference-triple-record`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Verifier compares each `reference-triple-record` against ACS entries as described in {{sec-match-one-se}}, where the `reference-triple-record` takes the place of a `stateful-environment-record`.
```

> If all `reference-triple-record`s match the ACS then the Verifier MUST add the authority which signed the CoRIM file containing the triple to the `authorized-by` field of each `measurement-values-map` codepoint which matched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If all fields of the `reference-triple-record` match the ACS, then the Verifier MUST add the RVP authority to each matching ACS field.
```

> If any `reference-triple-record` in the Reference Value triple does not match the ACS then the entire triple is ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any `reference-triple-record` in the Reference Value triple does not match, the entire triple is ignored and the Appraisal Context is consulted to see if other Reference Values are appropriate.
If all remaining appropriate Reference Value triples have been exhausted without matching, then the ACS state is unchanged.
If a matching Reference Value triple contains the `authorized-by` field. The authority contained in this field is added to the ACS.
```

### Processing Endorsed Value Triple

[^issue]: Content missing. Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/179

### Processing triples representing Conditional Endorsements

> An Endorser may use CoMID tags to publish Conditional Endorsements, which are added to the Accepted Claims Set only if specified conditions apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Endorser may use CoMID tags to publish Conditional Endorsements, which are added to the Accepted Claims Set only if specified conditions are satisfied.
```

This section describes the process performed by the Verifier to determine which Conditional Endorsements from the candidate CoMIDs should be added to the ACS.

The verifier checks whether Conditional Endorsements are applicable by comparing Accepted Claims Set entries against expected values provided in `stateful-environment-record` object which are part of the triple.

#### Processing Conditional Endorsement Triple

For each Conditional Endorsement Triple the Verifier compares the `stateful-environment-record` field in the triple against the ACS (see {{sec-match-one-se}}).

> If the stateful environment matches then the Verifier MUST add an Endorsement entry to the ACS (see {{sec-add-to-acs}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the stateful environment matches, then the Verifier MUST add an Endorsement entry to the ACS (see {{sec-add-to-acs}}).
```

> The endorsement is created from the `environment-map` and the `measurement-values-map` field in the triple, plus the authority which signed the CoRIM file containing the Conditional Endorsement Triple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Endorsement consists of the `measurement-values-map` field in the triple, plus the authority of the entity that signed the conditional endorsement triple.
```

#### Processing Multi-Environment Conditional (MEC) Endorsement Triple

For each MEC Endorsement Triple the Verifier compares each of the `stateful-environment-record` fields from the `cond` field in the triple against the ACS (see {{sec-match-one-se}}).

> If every stateful environment matches then the Verifier MUST add an Endorsement entry to the ACS (see {{sec-add-to-acs}}) for each `endorsed-triple-record` in the `endorsements` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If every stateful environment matches a corresponding ACS entry, then the Verifier MUST add an Endorsement entry to the ACS (see {{sec-add-to-acs}}) for each `endorsed-triple-record` in the `endorsements` field.
```

> Each endorsement is created from the `endorsed-triple-record` and the authority which signed the CoRIM file containing the MEC Endorsement Triple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each endorsement from the `endorsed-triple-record` contains the authority of the entity that signed the MEC endorsement triple.
```

#### Processing Conditional Endorsement Series Triple

For each Conditional Endorsement Series Triple the Verifier iterates over the `conditional-series-record`s within the triple, stopping if it finds a match.

For each iteration, the Verifier creates a temporary `stateful-environment-record` by merging the `stateful-environment-record` in the triple with the `refv` field in the `conditional-series-record`. It compares this temporary record against the ACS (see {{sec-match-one-se}}).

> If one of the temporary records matches then the Verifier MUST add an Endorsement entry to the ACS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If one of the temporary records matches then the Verifier MUST add the `endv` Endorsement entry to the ACS.
```

> This Endorsement is created from the `environment-map` field in `stateful-environment-record`, the `endv` field from the `conditional-series-record` which matched and the authority which signed the CoRIM file containing the Conditional Endorsement Series Triple.

Reviewer: Is this line needed? It seems to restate the matching algorithm described above. A simple change to line 1653 seems sufficient to describe the nature of the endorsement value added.

to a format which contains only a key, for example the `tagged-cose-key-type`
format. Using a common format makes it easier to compare the field.

> ## Accepted Claims Set extension using CoMID triples

Reviewer 2: "extension" is a bit overloaded.  Can we use a synonym instead?  E.g., "augmentation".

Author: ok

> In the Accepted Claims Set extension phase, a CoRIM Appraisal Context and an Evidence Appraisal Policy are used by the Verifier to find CoMID tags or triples which match the ACS.

Reviewer 2: The title of the section has removed "tags".  The same should apply to the contents.

```suggestion
In the Accepted Claims Set extension phase, a CoRIM Appraisal Context and an Evidence Appraisal Policy are used by the Verifier to find CoMID triples which match the ACS.
```

Author: thanks, missed that one

> Tags/triples which match are accepted, and the Accepted Claims Set is extended using Endorsements etc. from the accepted tags.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Tags/triples which match are accepted, and the Accepted Claims Set is extended using Endorsements from the accepted tags.
```

> Tags/triples which match are accepted, and the Accepted Claims Set is extended using Endorsements etc. from the accepted tags.

Reviewer 2: ditto

```suggestion
Triples which match are accepted and the ACS is extended with the associated endorsed values.
```

Each triple is processed independently of other triples.

> If any triple within the CoRIM Appraisal Context does not match the Accepted Claims Set then ACS extensions in that triple are not processed.

Reviewer 2: not sure what _"ACS extensions in that triple"_ refers to

Author: I think this line is better than the one below, so would prefer to drop this one

Author: I think this line is better than the one below, so would prefer to drop this one

> If any triple within the CoRIM Appraisal Context does not match the Accepted Claims Set then ACS extensions in that triple are not processed.

Reviewer 2: Maybe:

```suggestion
Any triple within the CoRIM Appraisal Context that does not match the Accepted Claims Set does not contribute to ACS extensions.
```

Author: I think this line is better than the one below, so would prefer to drop this one

> If a triple does not match the ACS then this does not affect whether the Verifier tries to match other triples against the ACS.

Reviewer 2: This just restates L1599, we can be drop it.

Author: I think I prefer keeping this line and dropping the line before

Note that the order of triples processing is important. Processing a triple may result in modifications to the ACS which allow other triples to match the modified ACS.

> The Verifier SHOULD ensure that it processes triples in the correct order (for example by processing all triples which match against a particular ACS entry or environment after that ACS entry has been modified).

Reviewer 2: This is security-relevant, it can't be a SHOULD.  It has to be a well-defined MUST. 

```suggestion
The Verifier SHOULD ensure that it processes triples in the correct order (for example by processing all triples which match against a particular ACS entry or environment after that ACS entry has been modified).
```

Author: I think it is ok to make this MUST, but I expect the result of processing in the wrong order to be an attestation failure so this will fail safe.

### Processing Reference Values Triple

> A Reference Value Provider (RVP) may publish Reference Values, which are reviewed to determine if they are contained in the Accepted Claims Set (ACS).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Reference Value Provider (RVP) publishes Reference Values that are matched against the Accepted Claims Set (ACS).
```

The authority of the RVP is added to all ACS entries which match the Reference Values triple.

> For each Reference Value triple, the verifier compares each `reference-triple-record` against ACS entries as described in {{sec-match-one-se}}, using a `stateful-environment-record` created from the fields in `reference-triple-record`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Verifier compares each `reference-triple-record` against ACS entries as described in {{sec-match-one-se}}, using a `stateful-environment-record` created from the fields in `reference-triple-record`.
```

If all `reference-triple-record`s match the ACS then the authority which signed the triple shall be added to the `authorized-by` field of each ACS entry which matched.

> TODO: Is this really what we want? I think this description might not work as expected if there are partial matches.

Reviewer 3: @andrew-draper To my impression: This PR is still as Work In progress, if I read Line 1614:

The endorsement is created from the `environment-map` and the `measurement-values-map` field in the triple, and the authority which signed the tag containing the Conditional Endorsement Triple.

#### Processing Multi-Environment Conditional (MEC) Endorsement Triple

For each MEC Endorsement Triple the Verifier compares each of the `stateful-environment-record` fields from the `cond` field in the triple against the ACS (see {{sec-match-one-se}}).

If every stateful environment matches then the Verifier adds an Endorsement entry to the ACS (see {{sec-add-to-acs}}) for each `endorsed-triple-record` in the `endorsements` field.
Each endorsement is created from the `endorsed-triple-record` and the authority which signed the tag containing the MEC Endorsement Triple.

#### Processing Conditional Endorsement Series Triple

For each Conditional Endorsement Series Triple the Verifier matches the triple in two steps.
The first step compares the `stateful-environment-record` field in the triple against the ACS (see {{sec-match-one-se}}). If this matches then the Verifier performs the second step.

> The second step steps through the `conditional-series-record`s in order, comparing each of them against the ACS, using a temporary stateful environment created from the `environment-map` in step one and the `refv` field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The second step iterates through the `conditional-series-record`s in order, comparing each of them against the ACS, using a temporary stateful environment created from the `environment-map` in step one and the `refv` field.
```

> The second step steps through the `conditional-series-record`s in order, comparing each of them against the ACS, using a temporary stateful environment created from the `environment-map` in step one and the `refv` field.

Reviewer 3: The whole second step needs to be clarified!

I would attempt to rephrase it, see if you like it then take it

The second step iterates through the `conditional-series-record`s in order, comparing the `reference-value` in the record against the `reference-value` in the ACS

The second step stops if a match is detected.

If the second step matches then the Verifier adds an Endorsement entry to the ACS.
This endorsement is created from the `environment-map` field in `stateful-environment-record`, the `endv` field from the match detected in the second step and the authority which signed the tag containing the Conditional Endorsement Series Triple.

#### Matching a stateful environment against the Accepted Claims Set {#sec-match-one-se}

This section describes how a stateful environment is matched against an Accepted Claims Set entry.
If any part of the processing indicates that the stateful environment does not match then the remaining steps in this section are skipped for that stateful environment.

> A stateful environment consists of an `environment-map` plus a `measurement-map` which are processed separately.

Reviewer 3: Line 1660 is not clear! What do you mean by `processed separately`

If all candidate entries are discarded by this step then the stateful environment does not match.

The stateful environment entry is compared against each of the candidate entries.
If none of the candidate entries matches the stateful environment entry then the stateful environment does not match.

For each of the candidate entries, the Verifier SHALL iterate over the codepoints which are present in the `measurement-values-map` field (referred to as the "MVM codepoints" below) within the stateful environment `measurement-map`.
Each of the codepoints present in the stateful environment is compared againt the candidate entry.

If any codepoint present in the stateful environment `measurement-values-map` doesn't match the same codepoint within the candidate entry then the stateful environment does not match.

If all checks above have been performed successfully then the stateful environment matches.

#### Matching a single codepoint in two measurement-value-maps {#sec-match-one-codepoint}

> The algorithm used to match the MVM codepoints is described in this section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The algorithm used to match the measurement values map code points is described in this section.
```

The comparison performed depends on the value of the codepoint being compared and whether the `measurement-values-map` value associated with that codepoint is tagged.

If the stateful environment `measurement-values-map` value is tagged with a CBOR tag {{-cbor}} then the Verifier MUST use the comparison algorithm associated with that tag.

If the value is not tagged then the Verifier MUST use the comparison algorithm associated with the `measurement-values-map` codepoint for the entry.

> This specification defines the matching algorithm for some codepoints and CBOR tagged values, which are described in sub-sections below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This specification defines the matching algorithm for some codepoints and CBOR tagged values, which are described in sub-sections below. `Please add a reference to the section`
```

Each group is processed independently of other groups. If a group fails to match
the Accepted Claims Set then this does not affect the processing of other groups.

#### Matching a stateful environment against the Accepted Claims Set {#sec-match-one-ref-val}

> [^issue]: There were two interpretations of the meaning of `Reference Value` and the adopted
> meaning does not match the version in the current text. I will submit a further PR to replace
> most uses of "Reference Value" in section 5 with "stateful environment".
> Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/178

Reviewer 2: I think this will not render as you may expect :-)

```suggestion
> There were two interpretations of the meaning of `Reference Value` and the adopted meaning does not match the version in the current text. I will submit a further PR to replace most uses of "Reference Value" in section 5 with "stateful environment".  [tracked-at] https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/178
```

Author: I expect to delete this paragraph in the next change, happy to remove it in this one if you prefer

This section describes how a stateful environment is matched against Evidence in the

> Accepted Claims Set.

Reviewer 2: editorial note: we agreed to not insert arbitrary line breaks.

Author: ok

If any part of the processing indicates that the stateful environment does not match
then the remaining steps in this section are skipped for that conditional endorsement.

> A stateful environment consists of an `environment-map` plus a `measurement-map`.

Reviewer 2: I agree with Ned's suggestion, but then L1655-1658 also need to be rearranged as part of creating the reader's context.

In `conditional-endorsement-triple-record` and `mec-endorsement-triple-record` these are encoded together.
In other triples multiple stateful environments are represented more compactly by
letting one `environment-map` apply to multiple `measurement-map`s.

> The Verifier initialises its temporary `candidate entries` variable with all entries in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Verifier initializes its temporary `candidate entries` variable with all entries in the
```

Author: ok

> Accepted Claims Set (ACS) where the stateful enviromnment `environment-map` is a subset

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Accepted Claims Set (ACS) where the stateful environment `environment-map` is a subset
```

> The Verifier initialises its temporary `candidate entries` variable with all entries in the
> Accepted Claims Set (ACS) where the stateful enviromnment `environment-map` is a subset
> of the ACS `environment-map`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Verifier initializes a temporary 'candidate' entries variable where the `environment-map` fields from
the endorsement condition's `stateful-environment-record` is a subset of the `environment-map`
fields in the ACS `environment-map` records.
```

> If there are no candidate entries then the triple containing the stateful environment does not match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are no candidate entries then the endorsement triple containing the stateful environment does not match.
```

A stateful environment `environment-map` is a subset of an ACS entry `environment-map`
if each field (for example `class`, `instance` etc.) which is present in the
stateful environment `environment-map` is also present in the ACS entry,

> and the CBOR encoded field values in the stateful environment and
> ACS entry are binary identical.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the CBOR encoded field values are binary identical.
```

> If a field is not present in the stateful environment `environment-map` then the presence of,
> and value of, the corresponding ACS entry field does not affect whether the `environment-map`s are subsets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The stateful environment `environment-map` fields must match a subset of the candidate ACS entry `environment-map` fields.
In other words, the candidate ACS entry `environment-map` fields can be a superset of the condition entry.
```

Before performing the binary comparison, a Verifier SHOULD convert `environment-map` fields into
a form which meets CBOR Core Deterministic Encoding Requirements {{-cbor}}.

If the stateful environment contains an `authorized-by` field then the Verifier
SHALL modify the candidate entries to remove entries whose `authorized-by`
field does not contain one of the keys listed in the stateful environment
`authorized-by` field (see {{sec-authorized-by}} for more details).
If all candidate entries are discarded by this step then the
stateful environment does not match.

The Verifier SHALL iterate over the codepoints which are present in the

> `measurement-values-map` field within the stateful environment `measurement-values-map`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`measurement-values-map` field within the candidate ACS stateful environment `measurement-values-map`.
```

> The stateful environment entry is compared against each of the candidate entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ACS stateful environment entry is compared against each of the candidate entries.
```

> If none of the candidate entries matches

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If none of the candidate entries match
```

> the stateful environment entry then the stateful environment does not match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the stateful environment entry, then the stateful environment condition does not match.
```

> Reference Values are represented more compactly by letting one `environment-map`

Reviewer: This statement is inaccurate. Only the `reference-triple-record` and `coswid-triple-record` contain Reference Values. The coswid triple has multiple objects for a common subject, but it isn't a `measurement-map`.

Author: I will change Reference Value to stateful environment when fixing [#80](https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/80)

apply to multiple `measurement-map`s.

> The Verifier first looks for entries in the Accepted Claims Set with an

Author: The first proposed text deletes a lot of text and makes later paragraphs less clear. I am ok with the second proposed change.

> `environment-map` which is compatible with the Reference Value.

Author: Compatible is described two paragraphs later

> These are the candidate claims. If there are

Author: I have rewritten the text to remove the forward reference

no candidate claims then the Reference Value does not match.

> An ACS entry has a compatible `environment-map` if each field which is present
> in the Reference Value environment-map (for example `class`, `instance` etc.)

Reviewer: Lines 1659 - 1667 could be replaced with:
```suggestion
A Verifier searches the ACS for environments that match the reference environment in a Reference Value triple such as `reference-triple-record` or `coswid-triple-record`. The reference environment may contain a combination of environment fields (i.e., `class-map`, `instance-id`, `group-id`). If the Reference Value `environment-map` fields are the same or a subset of the ACS `environment-map` then the reference `environment-map` matches.
```

> is also present in the ACS entry, and the CBOR encoded field values in the Reference Value and ACS entry are binary identical.

Author: Processing of `authorized-by` is described later in the section.

> is also present in the ACS entry, and the CBOR encoded field values in the Reference Value and ACS entry are binary identical.

Author: I have rewritten this text

> If a field is not present in the Reference value then the presence of, and value of, the corresponding ACS entry field does not affect whether the `environment-map`s are compatible.

Author: I rewrote this para with subset language similar to that provided above.

> A Verifier SHOULD convert `environment-map` fields into a form which meets CBOR Core

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to matching, the Verifier SHOULD convert `environment-map` fields into a form which meets CBOR Core
```
Alternatively, this phrase could be moved before the matching phrase(s) as it captures matching pre-conditions.

Author: I have updated the text using text similar to that proposed

Deterministic Encoding Requirements {{-cbor}} before performing the binary comparison.

> If the Reference Value contains an `authorized-by` field then the Verifier

Reviewer: The authorized-by behavior seems incorrect since it is a goal of the verifier to keep track of who said what. Removing claims isn't needed (desired). 

The following replaces lines 1672 - 1677

```suggestion
If the Reference Value contains an `authorized-by` field then the Verifier checks the ACS authority for the matching Reference Values to see if the `authorized-by` authority exists. If not, the Reference Values do not match.
```
At line 1720 add:
```
If the Reference Values match, the authority of the RVP is added to the matched claims in the ACS.
```

Author: The verifier removes claims with incorrect authorized-by values from the candidate claims, which means that the stateful environment won't have anything to match against.
This text describes "Reference Value" with the meaning stateful environment, we should have a different subsection with the meaning of "Reference Value" you are using.

If there are no candidate entries then the triple containing the stateful environment does not match.

A stateful environment `environment-map` is a subset of an ACS entry `environment-map`

> if each field (for example `class`, `instance` etc.) which is present in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if each field (for example `class-map`, `instance-id` etc.) which is present in the
```

Author: The fields in `environment-map` are named `class`, `instance` and `group` so I think using these names is correct.
